To evaluate the characteristics of the participants and their perception of the experience, four types of questionnaires were answered by the participants, particularly, the sociodemographic questionnaire, the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), the State-Trait Inventory for Cognitive and Somatic Anxiety (STICSA), and the Visual Analog Scale (VAS). The Portuguese version of the questionnaire was used, and it can be consulted in the link.

The **sociodemographic questionnaire** aims to register the social and demographic characteristics of the participants, such as age, genre, nationality, mother tongue, academic qualifications, laterality, health restrictions (psychological or psychiatric problem, vision problem, medication), exposure to an emotionally intense situation, and the drinking coffee and exercising habits. The answers to this questionnaire were used to select the participants.

The **TAS-20** is a self-assessment instrument that evaluates the alexithymia construct, meaning the level of ability to identify and describe emotions. This questionnaire analyses three dimensions: the difficulty in identifying feelings and in distinguishing them from bodily sensations of emotion; the difficulty in describing feelings to others; the outwardly oriented thinking style. The questionnaire consists of 20 statements to which the participant must respond with a degree of agreement for each of the items on a five-point scale: 1-Strongly disagree; 2-Partially disagree; 3- Neither agree nor disagree; 4-Partially agree; 5-Totally agree. The participant’s difficulty in identifying their emotions can compromise the self-assessment of their emotional state during sessions. This questionnaire was answered by the participant only one time and before the first session.

The **STICSA** is a self-report instrument that assesses both cognitive and somatic dimensions, regarding trait and state anxiety. The STICSA Trait defines how strong a person’s feelings of anxiety are on a daily basis and was answered by the participants only one time and before the experimental session. On the other hand, the STICSA State defines the mood at the moment of the response and was answered at the begging of each session. Both are constituted by twenty-one affirmations regarding symptoms associated with anxiety, to which the participants should indicate how they feel on a scale between 1 to 4, the 1 corresponding to “Never” and 4 to “A lot”.

The **VAS** is a psychometric response scale designed to document the emotional state of the participants and understand the perception and effectiveness of the emotional induction. This questionnaire was divided into two parts. Firstly, it was presented a scale from 0% to 100% regarding anxiety, happiness, fear, and stress. Secondly, the valence and arousal on a scale of -5 to 5, in which low arousal and negative valence correspond to the minimum of the scale, and high arousal and positive valence correspond to the maximum. Considering that not all participants may be familiar with the valence and arousal terms, the scheme in Figure 5 was used to help clarify the two concepts. During the session, the participants responded to the VAS before and after viewing the video, which named these questionnaires, respectively, the Vas-Pre and Vas-Pos. Contrary to the Vas-Pre which only has one set of questions, the Vas-Pos have four sets: the first for the general emotions, the second for the first emotional set observed in the video, the third for the middle emotional set, and the fourth for the last emotional set.
